documentation/dotnet-dump-instructions.md, before:

Dump collection and analysis utility (dotnet-dump)
==================================================

NOTE: This documentation page may contain information on some features that are still work-in-progress. For most up-to-date documentation on released version of `dotnet-dump`, please refer to [its official documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-dump) page.

## Intro

The dotnet-dump CLI global tool is way to collect and analyze the managed data structures in Windows and Linux dumps all without any native debugger involved. This makes creating a managed dump easier, and on some platforms like Alpine Linux or Linux ARM32/ARM64 (where a fully working lldb isn't available) it makes creating a managed dump possible. The dotnet-dump tool will allow you to run SOS commands to analyze crashes and the GC, but it isn't a native debugger so things like displaying the native stack frames aren't supported.

Here's a table showing how dotnet-dump fits into your dump debugging options:

|                        | Windows native dumps | Windows managed eg from `dotnet-dump collect` | Linux system dump | Linux from `dotnet-dump collect` | macOS system dump | macOS from `dotnet-dump collect` |
|:-----------------------|:---------------------|:----------------------------------------------|:------------------|:---------------------------------|:------------------|:---------------------------------|
| Visual Studio          | yes                  | yes                                           | yes (1)           | yes (1)                          | no, need lldb     | no                               |
| Windbg (including SOS) | yes                  | yes                                           | yes (2)           | yes (2)                          | no, need lldb     | no                               |
| `dotnet-dump analyze`  | no                   | yes                                           | no                | yes                              | no                | yes                              |

(1) [Requires Visual Studio 2019 version 16.8 Preview 3](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/cppblog/debug-linux-core-dumps-in-visual-studio/) or later.
(2) [Requires WinDbg Preview version 1.0.2007.01003](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/windbg-what-is-new-preview) or later.


## Installing dotnet-dump

The first step is to install the dotnet-dump CLI global tool. This requires at least the 3.1 or greater .NET Core SDK to be installed. If you see the error message `Tool 'dotnet-dump' is already installed`, you will need to uninstall the global tool (see below). 

    $ dotnet tool install -g dotnet-dump
    You can invoke the tool using the following command: dotnet-dump
    Tool 'dotnet-dump' (version '3.0.47001') was successfully installed.

If this is the first global tool installed or you get message `Could not execute because the specified command or file was not found.` you need to add `$HOME/.dotnet/tools` to your path.

    export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.dotnet/tools

## Using dotnet-dump

The next step is to collect a dump. This can be skipped if a core dump has already been generated by the operating system or [createdump](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/coreclr/botr/xplat-minidump-generation.md#configurationpolicy) on Linux. The default dump type (--type option) is currently "full".

On Linux, the .NET runtime version must be 3.0 or greater. On Windows, `dotnet-dump collect` will work with any version of the .NET runtime.
     
    $ dotnet-dump collect --process-id 1902
    Writing minidump to file ./core_20190226_135837
    Written 98983936 bytes (24166 pages) to core file
    Complete

If you are running under docker, dump collection requires SYS_PTRACE docker capabilities (--cap-add=SYS_PTRACE or --privileged).

Now analyze the core dump.

    $ dotnet-dump analyze ./core_20190226_135850
    Loading core dump: ./core_20190226_135850
    Ready to process analysis commands. Type 'help' to list available commands or 'help [command]' to get detailed help on a command.
    Type 'quit' or 'exit' to exit the session.
    >

This brings up an interactive command processor that accepts commands like:

    > clrstack
    OS Thread Id: 0x573d (0)
        Child SP               IP Call Site
    00007FFD28B42C58 00007fb22c1a8ed9 [HelperMethodFrame_PROTECTOBJ: 00007ffd28b42c58] System.RuntimeMethodHandle.InvokeMethod(System.Object, System.Object[], System.Signature, Boolean, Boolean)
    00007FFD28B42DD0 00007FB1B1334F67 System.Reflection.RuntimeMethodInfo.Invoke(System.Object, System.Reflection.BindingFlags, System.Reflection.Binder, System.Object[], System.Globalization.CultureInfo) [/root/coreclr/src/mscorlib/src/System/Reflection/RuntimeMethodInfo.cs @ 472]
    00007FFD28B42E20 00007FB1B18D33ED SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo4(System.String) [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 54]
    00007FFD28B42ED0 00007FB1B18D2FC4 SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo2(Int32, System.String) [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 29]
    00007FFD28B42F00 00007FB1B18D2F5A SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo1(Int32, System.String) [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 24]
    00007FFD28B42F30 00007FB1B18D168E SymbolTestApp.Program.Main(System.String[]) [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 19]
    00007FFD28B43210 00007fb22aa9cedf [GCFrame: 00007ffd28b43210]
    00007FFD28B43610 00007fb22aa9cedf [GCFrame: 00007ffd28b43610]

To see the unhandled exception if your app was terminated:

    > pe -lines
    Exception object: 00007fb18c038590
    Exception type:   System.Reflection.TargetInvocationException
    Message:          Exception has been thrown by the target of an invocation.
    InnerException:   System.Exception, Use !PrintException 00007FB18C038368 to see more.
    StackTrace (generated):
    SP               IP               Function
    00007FFD28B42DD0 0000000000000000 System.Private.CoreLib.dll!System.RuntimeMethodHandle.InvokeMethod(System.Object, System.Object[], System.Signature, Boolean, Boolean)
    00007FFD28B42DD0 00007FB1B1334F67 System.Private.CoreLib.dll!System.Reflection.RuntimeMethodInfo.Invoke(System.Object, System.Reflection.BindingFlags, System.Reflection.Binder, System.Object[], System.Globalization.CultureInfo)+0xa7 [/root/coreclr/src/mscorlib/src/System/Reflection/RuntimeMethodInfo.cs @ 472]
    00007FFD28B42E20 00007FB1B18D33ED SymbolTestApp.dll!SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo4(System.String)+0x15d [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 54]
    00007FFD28B42ED0 00007FB1B18D2FC4 SymbolTestApp.dll!SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo2(Int32, System.String)+0x34 [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 29]
    00007FFD28B42F00 00007FB1B18D2F5A SymbolTestApp.dll!SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo1(Int32, System.String)+0x3a [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 24]
    00007FFD28B42F30 00007FB1B18D168E SymbolTestApp.dll!SymbolTestApp.Program.Main(System.String[])+0x6e [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 19]

    StackTraceString: <none>
    HResult: 80131604

To display the help:

    > help
    Usage:
      dotnet-dump [command]

    Commands:
      exit, quit                           Exit interactive mode.
      help, soshelp <command>              Display help for a command.
      lm, modules                          Displays the native modules in the process.
      threads, setthread <threadid>        Sets or displays the current thread id for the SOS commands.
      clrstack <arguments>                 Provides a stack trace of managed code only.
      clrthreads <arguments>               List the managed threads running.
      dumpasync <arguments>                Displays info about async state machines on the garbage-collected heap.
      dumpassembly <arguments>             Displays details about an assembly.
      dumpclass <arguments>                Displays information about a EE class structure at the specified address.
      dumpdelegate <arguments>             Displays information about a delegate.
      dumpdomain <arguments>               Displays information all the AppDomains and all assemblies within the domains.
      dumpheap <arguments>                 Displays info about the garbage-collected heap and collection statistics about objects.
      dumpil <arguments>                   Displays the Microsoft intermediate language (MSIL) that is associated with a managed method.
      dumplog <arguments>                  Writes the contents of an in-memory stress log to the specified file.
      dumpmd <arguments>                   Displays information about a MethodDesc structure at the specified address.
      dumpmodule <arguments>               Displays information about a EE module structure at the specified address.
      dumpmt <arguments>                   Displays information about a method table at the specified address.
      dumpobj <arguments>                  Displays info about an object at the specified address.
      dso, dumpstackobjects <arguments>    Displays all managed objects found within the bounds of the current stack.
      eeheap <arguments>                   Displays info about process memory consumed by internal runtime data structures.
      finalizequeue <arguments>            Displays all objects registered for finalization.
      gcroot <arguments>                   Displays info about references (or roots) to an object at the specified address.
      gcwhere <arguments>                  Displays the location in the GC heap of the argument passed in.
      ip2md <arguments>                    Displays the MethodDesc structure at the specified address in code that has been JIT-compiled.
      name2ee <arguments>                  Displays the MethodTable structure and EEClass structure for the specified type or method in the specified module.
      pe, printexception <arguments>       Displays and formats fields of any object derived from the Exception class at the specified address.
      syncblk <arguments>                  Displays the SyncBlock holder info.
      histclear <arguments>                Releases any resources used by the family of Hist commands.
      histinit <arguments>                 Initializes the SOS structures from the stress log saved in the debuggee.
      histobj <arguments>                  Examines all stress log relocation records and displays the chain of garbage collection relocations that may have led to the address passed in as an argument.
      histobjfind <arguments>              Displays all the log entries that reference an object at the specified address.
      histroot <arguments>                 Displays information related to both promotions and relocations of the specified root.
      setsymbolserver <arguments>          Enables the symbol server support
      soshelp <arguments>                  Displays all available commands when no parameter is specified, or displays detailed help information about the specified command. soshelp <command>

This command on Microsoft .NET Core SDK Linux docker images can throw `Unhandled exception: System.DllNotFoundException: Unable to load shared library 'libdl.so' or one of its dependencies` exception. To work around this problem install the "libc6-dev" package.

## Uninstalling dotnet-dump 

    $ dotnet tool uninstall -g dotnet-dump
    Tool 'dotnet-dump' (version '3.0.47001') was successfully uninstalled.

Commit message:

Retire Duplicate Documentation (#4341)
Retire duplicate documentation by redirecting to docs that will be updated.

fixes #515

---------

Co-authored-by: Noah Falk <noahfalk@users.noreply.github.com>

documentation/dotnet-dump-instructions.md, after:

This documentation is now being maintained at [dotnet-dump](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-dump). This doc is no longer being updated.

Dump collection and analysis utility (dotnet-dump)
==================================================

NOTE: This documentation page may contain information on some features that are still work-in-progress. For most up-to-date documentation on released version of `dotnet-dump`, please refer to [its official documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/diagnostics/dotnet-dump) page.

## Intro

The dotnet-dump CLI global tool is way to collect and analyze the managed data structures in Windows and Linux dumps all without any native debugger involved. This makes creating a managed dump easier, and on some platforms like Alpine Linux or Linux ARM32/ARM64 (where a fully working lldb isn't available) it makes creating a managed dump possible. The dotnet-dump tool will allow you to run SOS commands to analyze crashes and the GC, but it isn't a native debugger so things like displaying the native stack frames aren't supported.

Here's a table showing how dotnet-dump fits into your dump debugging options:

|                        | Windows native dumps | Windows managed eg from `dotnet-dump collect` | Linux system dump | Linux from `dotnet-dump collect` | macOS system dump | macOS from `dotnet-dump collect` |
|:-----------------------|:---------------------|:----------------------------------------------|:------------------|:---------------------------------|:------------------|:---------------------------------|
| Visual Studio          | yes                  | yes                                           | yes (1)           | yes (1)                          | no, need lldb     | no                               |
| Windbg (including SOS) | yes                  | yes                                           | yes (2)           | yes (2)                          | no, need lldb     | no                               |
| `dotnet-dump analyze`  | no                   | yes                                           | no                | yes                              | no                | yes                              |

(1) [Requires Visual Studio 2019 version 16.8 Preview 3](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/cppblog/debug-linux-core-dumps-in-visual-studio/) or later.
(2) [Requires WinDbg Preview version 1.0.2007.01003](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/debugger/windbg-what-is-new-preview) or later.


## Installing dotnet-dump

The first step is to install the dotnet-dump CLI global tool. This requires at least the 3.1 or greater .NET Core SDK to be installed. If you see the error message `Tool 'dotnet-dump' is already installed`, you will need to uninstall the global tool (see below). 

    $ dotnet tool install -g dotnet-dump
    You can invoke the tool using the following command: dotnet-dump
    Tool 'dotnet-dump' (version '3.0.47001') was successfully installed.

If this is the first global tool installed or you get message `Could not execute because the specified command or file was not found.` you need to add `$HOME/.dotnet/tools` to your path.

    export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.dotnet/tools

## Using dotnet-dump

The next step is to collect a dump. This can be skipped if a core dump has already been generated by the operating system or [createdump](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/main/docs/design/coreclr/botr/xplat-minidump-generation.md#configurationpolicy) on Linux. The default dump type (--type option) is currently "full".

On Linux, the .NET runtime version must be 3.0 or greater. On Windows, `dotnet-dump collect` will work with any version of the .NET runtime.
     
    $ dotnet-dump collect --process-id 1902
    Writing minidump to file ./core_20190226_135837
    Written 98983936 bytes (24166 pages) to core file
    Complete

If you are running under docker, dump collection requires SYS_PTRACE docker capabilities (--cap-add=SYS_PTRACE or --privileged).

Now analyze the core dump.

    $ dotnet-dump analyze ./core_20190226_135850
    Loading core dump: ./core_20190226_135850
    Ready to process analysis commands. Type 'help' to list available commands or 'help [command]' to get detailed help on a command.
    Type 'quit' or 'exit' to exit the session.
    >

This brings up an interactive command processor that accepts commands like:

    > clrstack
    OS Thread Id: 0x573d (0)
        Child SP               IP Call Site
    00007FFD28B42C58 00007fb22c1a8ed9 [HelperMethodFrame_PROTECTOBJ: 00007ffd28b42c58] System.RuntimeMethodHandle.InvokeMethod(System.Object, System.Object[], System.Signature, Boolean, Boolean)
    00007FFD28B42DD0 00007FB1B1334F67 System.Reflection.RuntimeMethodInfo.Invoke(System.Object, System.Reflection.BindingFlags, System.Reflection.Binder, System.Object[], System.Globalization.CultureInfo) [/root/coreclr/src/mscorlib/src/System/Reflection/RuntimeMethodInfo.cs @ 472]
    00007FFD28B42E20 00007FB1B18D33ED SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo4(System.String) [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 54]
    00007FFD28B42ED0 00007FB1B18D2FC4 SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo2(Int32, System.String) [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 29]
    00007FFD28B42F00 00007FB1B18D2F5A SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo1(Int32, System.String) [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 24]
    00007FFD28B42F30 00007FB1B18D168E SymbolTestApp.Program.Main(System.String[]) [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 19]
    00007FFD28B43210 00007fb22aa9cedf [GCFrame: 00007ffd28b43210]
    00007FFD28B43610 00007fb22aa9cedf [GCFrame: 00007ffd28b43610]

To see the unhandled exception if your app was terminated:

    > pe -lines
    Exception object: 00007fb18c038590
    Exception type:   System.Reflection.TargetInvocationException
    Message:          Exception has been thrown by the target of an invocation.
    InnerException:   System.Exception, Use !PrintException 00007FB18C038368 to see more.
    StackTrace (generated):
    SP               IP               Function
    00007FFD28B42DD0 0000000000000000 System.Private.CoreLib.dll!System.RuntimeMethodHandle.InvokeMethod(System.Object, System.Object[], System.Signature, Boolean, Boolean)
    00007FFD28B42DD0 00007FB1B1334F67 System.Private.CoreLib.dll!System.Reflection.RuntimeMethodInfo.Invoke(System.Object, System.Reflection.BindingFlags, System.Reflection.Binder, System.Object[], System.Globalization.CultureInfo)+0xa7 [/root/coreclr/src/mscorlib/src/System/Reflection/RuntimeMethodInfo.cs @ 472]
    00007FFD28B42E20 00007FB1B18D33ED SymbolTestApp.dll!SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo4(System.String)+0x15d [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 54]
    00007FFD28B42ED0 00007FB1B18D2FC4 SymbolTestApp.dll!SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo2(Int32, System.String)+0x34 [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 29]
    00007FFD28B42F00 00007FB1B18D2F5A SymbolTestApp.dll!SymbolTestApp.Program.Foo1(Int32, System.String)+0x3a [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 24]
    00007FFD28B42F30 00007FB1B18D168E SymbolTestApp.dll!SymbolTestApp.Program.Main(System.String[])+0x6e [/home/mikem/builds/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp/SymbolTestApp.cs @ 19]

    StackTraceString: <none>
    HResult: 80131604

To display the help:

    > help
    Usage:
      dotnet-dump [command]

    Commands:
      exit, quit                           Exit interactive mode.
      help, soshelp <command>              Display help for a command.
      lm, modules                          Displays the native modules in the process.
      threads, setthread <threadid>        Sets or displays the current thread id for the SOS commands.
      clrstack <arguments>                 Provides a stack trace of managed code only.
      clrthreads <arguments>               List the managed threads running.
      dumpasync <arguments>                Displays info about async state machines on the garbage-collected heap.
      dumpassembly <arguments>             Displays details about an assembly.
      dumpclass <arguments>                Displays information about a EE class structure at the specified address.
      dumpdelegate <arguments>             Displays information about a delegate.
      dumpdomain <arguments>               Displays information all the AppDomains and all assemblies within the domains.
      dumpheap <arguments>                 Displays info about the garbage-collected heap and collection statistics about objects.
      dumpil <arguments>                   Displays the Microsoft intermediate language (MSIL) that is associated with a managed method.
      dumplog <arguments>                  Writes the contents of an in-memory stress log to the specified file.
      dumpmd <arguments>                   Displays information about a MethodDesc structure at the specified address.
      dumpmodule <arguments>               Displays information about a EE module structure at the specified address.
      dumpmt <arguments>                   Displays information about a method table at the specified address.
      dumpobj <arguments>                  Displays info about an object at the specified address.
      dso, dumpstackobjects <arguments>    Displays all managed objects found within the bounds of the current stack.
      eeheap <arguments>                   Displays info about process memory consumed by internal runtime data structures.
      finalizequeue <arguments>            Displays all objects registered for finalization.
      gcroot <arguments>                   Displays info about references (or roots) to an object at the specified address.
      gcwhere <arguments>                  Displays the location in the GC heap of the argument passed in.
      ip2md <arguments>                    Displays the MethodDesc structure at the specified address in code that has been JIT-compiled.
      name2ee <arguments>                  Displays the MethodTable structure and EEClass structure for the specified type or method in the specified module.
      pe, printexception <arguments>       Displays and formats fields of any object derived from the Exception class at the specified address.
      syncblk <arguments>                  Displays the SyncBlock holder info.
      histclear <arguments>                Releases any resources used by the family of Hist commands.
      histinit <arguments>                 Initializes the SOS structures from the stress log saved in the debuggee.
      histobj <arguments>                  Examines all stress log relocation records and displays the chain of garbage collection relocations that may have led to the address passed in as an argument.
      histobjfind <arguments>              Displays all the log entries that reference an object at the specified address.
      histroot <arguments>                 Displays information related to both promotions and relocations of the specified root.
      setsymbolserver <arguments>          Enables the symbol server support
      soshelp <arguments>                  Displays all available commands when no parameter is specified, or displays detailed help information about the specified command. soshelp <command>

This command on Microsoft .NET Core SDK Linux docker images can throw `Unhandled exception: System.DllNotFoundException: Unable to load shared library 'libdl.so' or one of its dependencies` exception. To work around this problem install the "libc6-dev" package.

## Uninstalling dotnet-dump 

    $ dotnet tool uninstall -g dotnet-dump
    Tool 'dotnet-dump' (version '3.0.47001') was successfully uninstalled.
